Robot Engineering Task Force                                    G. Biggs
Request for Comments: 1                                             AIST
BCP: 2                                                      October 2010
Category: Informational


                           The RRFC Process


Status of this Memo

   This document specifies a Robotics Best Current Practices for the
   Robotics Community, and requests discussion and suggestions for
   improvements.  Distribution of this memo is unlimited.

Abstract

   This memo documents the process used by the Robotics Community for
   the publication of Robotics Request For Comments.  It defines the
   stages in the publication process, the requirements for moving a
   document between stages and the types of documents used during this
   process.  It also addresses the intellectual property rights and
   copyright issues associated with the publication process.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (C) Someone (2010).  All Rights Reserved.

Table of Contents

   1.  INTRODUCTION...................................................
     1.1  Robotics Request For Comments
     1.2  The Publication Process..............................
     1.3  Organization of This Document...............................
   2.  INVOLVED PUBLICATIONS
     2.1  Robotics Requests for Comments (RRFCs)................................
       2.1.1 General
       2.1.2 Experimental
       2.1.3 Informational
     2.2  Robotics-Drafts.............................................
   3.  BEST CURRENT PRACTICE (BCP) RRFCs...............................
   4.  THE ROBOTICS REQUEST FOR COMMENT PUBLICATION PROCESS
     4.1  Publication Actions
     4.2  Robotics-Draft process
     4.3  Voting
     4.4  Best Current Practice Process
     4.5  Conflict Resolution and Appeals
   5.  EXTERNAL STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS
   6.  NOTICES AND RECORD KEEPING
     6.1  Submission of a new Robotics-Draft
     6.2  Proposed elevation of an R-D to RRFC or RRFC to BCP
     6.3  Opening of voting
     6.4  Close of voting
     6.5  Outcome of voting
     6.6  Publication of an RRFC
   7. VARYING THE PROCESS............................................
   8.  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS..................................
     8.1.  General Policy............................................
     8.2   Confidentiality Obligations...............................
     8.3.  Rights and Permissions....................................
       8.3.1. All Contributions......................................
       8.3.2. Standards Track Documents..............................
       8.3.3  Determination of Reasonable and
              Non-discriminatory Terms...............................
     8.4.  Notices..................................................
   9. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS...............................................
   10. SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS.......................................
   11. REFERENCES....................................................
   12. DEFINITIONS OF TERMS..........................................
   13. AUTHOR'S ADDRESS..............................................
   APPENDIX A: GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS..................................


1.  INTRODUCTION

   This memo documents the process currently used by the Robotics
   Community for the publication of Robotics Request For Comments.  The
   publication process is an activity of the Robotics Community that is
   organized and managed on behalf of the Robotics Community by the RRFC
   Editor and the Voting Managers.

1.1  Robotics Request For Comments

   The Robotics Community develops a wide range of related technologies
   that are vital to the development and operation of robot systems.

   The Robotics Request For Comments (RRFC) publication process
   described in this document is concerned with all protocols,
   procedures, technologies and conventions that are used in or by
   robotics.  In the case of technologies developed and/or standardized
   by other organizations, however, the RRFC publication process
   normally applies to the application of the technology in the robotics
   context, not to the specification of the technology itself.

1.2  The Publication Process

   In outline, the process of creating and publishing an RRFC is
   straightforward:  an RRFC undergoes a period of development and
   several iterations of review by the robotics community and revision
   based upon experience, is voted on by the robotics community under
   the direction of the Voting Managers, is adopted as an RRFC by the
   robotics community, and published. Published RRFCs may undergo a
   further process of review and voting in order to become Best Current
   Practice (BCP) RRFCs. This process may be complicated due to
   (1) the difficulty of creating
   specifications of high technical quality;  (2) the need to consider
   the interests of all of the affected parties;  (3) the importance of
   establishing widespread community consensus;  and (4) the difficulty
   of evaluating the utility of a particular specification for the
   robotics community.

   The goals of the RRFC Publication Process are:
   o  technical excellence;
   o  prior implementation and testing;
   o  clear, concise, and easily understood documentation;
   o  openness and fairness;  and
   o  timeliness.

   The procedures described in this document are designed to be fair,
   open, and objective;  to reflect existing (proven) practice;  and to
   be flexible.

   o  These procedures are intended to provide a fair, open, and
      objective basis for developing, evaluating, and publishing RRFCs.
      They provide ample opportunity for participation and comment by
      all interested parties.  At each stage of the publication process,
      a document is repeatedly discussed and its merits debated in open
      meetings and/or public electronic mailing lists, and it is made
      available for review via world-wide on-line directories.

   o  These procedures provide a great deal of flexibility to adapt to
      the wide variety of circumstances that occur in the
      publication process.  Experience has shown this flexibility to
      be vital in achieving the goals listed above.

   The goal of technical competence, the requirement for prior
   implementation and testing, and the need to allow all interested
   parties to comment all require significant time and effort.  On the
   other hand, today's rapid development of robotics technology
   demands timely development of standards.  The RRFC Publication
   Process is intended to balance these conflicting goals.  The process
   is believed to be as short and simple as possible without sacrificing
   technical excellence or openness and fairness.

1.3  Organization of This Document


2.  Involved Publications

2.1  Robotics Requests for Comments (RRFCs)

   The "Robotics Request for Comments" (RRFC) document series is an
   archival series obtainable from a number of Internet hosts using
   various Internet document-retrieval systems. They cover a wide range
   of topics relating to robotics and robotic technologies, with the
   goal of informing the wider robotics community of new techniques,
   common practice, and providing information relevant to the community.
   They feature contents from early discussion of new research topics to
   status memos about existing technologies and projects.  RRFCs are not
   standards and should not be treated as such. However, it is
   beneficial for multiple implementations of a similar system to be
   able to refer to a single source for specification of, for example,
   data formats, file formats and protocols. RRFC publication is the
   direct responsibility of the RRFC Editor, under the guidance of the
   Voting Managers.

   The rules for formatting and submitting an RRFC are defined in [1].
   Every RRFC is available in ASCII text.  Some RRFCs are also available
   in other formats.  The other versions of an RRFC may contain material
   (such as diagrams and figures) that is not present in the ASCII
   version, and it may be formatted differently. The ASCII text version
   is considered the definitive reference, and so should be complete.

   Some RRFCs standardize the results of community deliberations about
   statements of principle or conclusions about what is the best way to
   perform some operations or RETF process function.  These RRFCs are
   adopted as Best Current Practice (BCP) documents, and are given an
   additional number in the BCP series. They keep their RFC number.

   Not all RRFCs will become BCPs. These may be published as
   "Experimental," "Informational" or "General" RRFCs at the discretion
   of the RRFC Editor in consulation with the robotics community and
   authors. RRFCs may also be marked in the index as "Historical" (not
   "Historic," as the IETF uses). These are RRFCs that have been
   obsoleted by newer RRFCs.

   RRFCs are not standards. They should not be considered standards.
   They aid in multiple parties producing inter-operable systems, but
   there is no requirement to conform to all parts of an RRFC or
   implement it without changes. Conforming to an RRFC specification is
   a purely voluntary act done for the purposes of allowing greater
   inter-operation between the implementor's system and other members of
   the robotics community.

   RRFCs place an emphasis on existing practical experience. An RRFC
   carries a lot more weight, and is more likely to get through the
   voting process, if there is a working implementation to back it up.

2.1.1  General

   General RRFCs are published following a voting process as detailed in
   Section 4. They are generally expected to be potential Best Current
   Practice documents, although not all will be elevated to the BCP
   level.

2.1.2  Experimental

   The "Experimental" designation typically denotes a technology that is
   part of some research or development effort.  Such an RRFC is
   published for the general information of the Robotics Community and
   as an archival record of the work, subject to editorial
   considerations. They do not require a voting process to be published;
   it is the sole discretion of the RRFC Editor to publish them.
   Discussion on the value of publishing an Experimental RRFC may be
   held on the open mailing list; appeals against decisions not to
   publish may also be made on the open mailing list. If an appeal is
   made, the Voting Managers may choose to hold a vote on the
   publication of the document.

2.1.3  Informational

   An "Informational" RRFC is published for the general information of
   the Robotics Community, and does not represent an Robotics Community
   consensus or recommendation.  The Informational designation is
   intended to provide for the timely publication of a very broad range
   of responsible informational documents from many sources, subject to
   editorial considerations.  They do not require a voting process to be
   published; it is the sole discretion of the RRFC Editor to publish
   them.  Discussion on the value of publishing an Experimental RRFC may
   be held on the open mailing list; appeals against decisions not to
   publish may also be made on the open mailing list. If an appeal is
   made, the Voting Managers may choose to hold a vote on the
   publication of the document.

   Standards and other documents that have been published outside of the
   RRFC Publication Process may be published as Informational RRFCs with
   the permission of the owner and the concurrence of the RRFC Editor.

   Informational RRFCs are a good channel for publishing important,
   long-term notices.


2.2  Robotics-Drafts

   During the development of an RRFC, draft versions of the document are
   made available for informal review and comment by placing them in the
   "Robotics-Drafts" directory, which is replicated on a number of
   Internet hosts.  This makes an evolving working document readily
   available to a wide audience, facilitating the process of review and
   revision.

   A Robotics-Draft (R-D) that is published as an RRFC, or that has
   remained unchanged in the Robotics-Drafts directory for more than six
   months without being recommended by for publication as an RRFC, is
   simply removed from the Robotics-Drafts directory.  At any time, a
   Robotics-Draft may be replaced by a more recent version of the same
   specification, restarting the six-month timeout period.

   A Robotics-Draft is NOT a means of "publishing" an RRFC; RRFCs are
   published through the RRFC mechanism described in the previous
   section.  Robotics-Drafts have no formal status, and are subject to
   change or removal at any time. They should never be referenced by any
   paper, report, or other document. Noone should ever claim compliance
   with a Robotics-Draft.


3.  Best Current Practice (BCP) RRFCs

   Some RRFCs may be so widely-supported in the robotics community that
   they can be proposed as the Best Current Practice in their subject. A
   current list of BCPs is maintained. Being a BCP confers an additional
   degree of recognition on an RRFC, but does not turn it into a
   standard that everyone can or should follow. They are generally used
   to represent the community consensus on a topic.

   The process of becoming a BCP is generally the same as for publishing
   an RRFC. A proposal is made that an RRFC should be considered Best
   Current Practice, with a (possibly revised) version of that RRFC
   submitted as a Robotics-Draft. Discussion is held on the merits of
   the proposal.  After a reasonable period of time, a vote is held
   following the same rules as voting for RRFC publication. If the vote
   is successful, the Robotics-Draft is published as an RRFC, labled
   also with its BCP number, by the RRFC Editor. At the same time, the
   BCP is added to the BCP index.

   Although they represent the best of the RRFCs, BCPs are not
   standards. They should not be considered standards.  They aid in
   multiple parties producing inter-operable systems, but there is no
   requirement to conform to all parts of an RRFC or implement it
   without changes. Conforming to an RRFC specification is a purely
   voluntary act done for the purposes of allowing greater
   inter-operation between the implementor's system and other members of
   the robotics community.

   BCPs are also used for documenting the procedures of the RETF itself,
   such as this document.


4.  The Robotics Request For Comment Publication Process

   The mechanics of the Robotics Request For Comment Publication Process
   involve the movement of documents through maturity levels: from a
   draft state to a published state, and potentially further on to a
   recognised best current practice state. The process is designed to be
   as simple and open as possible, involving the community in the voting
   process. It aims to arrive at a community consensus rather than
   allowing a smaller group to dominate.

4.1  Publication Actions

   A "publication action" -- publishing or rejecting an RRFC, and
   accepting or rejecting a BCP -- must be agreed upon by a vote on the
   RRFC-voting mailing list.

4.2  Robotics-Draft process

   Documents begin life as Robotics-Drafts (see Section 2.2). A
   Robotics-Draft is submitted and placed in the Robotics-Draft
   directory, where it is available for all to view. The author(s) of
   the original document may replace it at any time with a new version.

   If, 6 months after the most recent change, the document has not been
   elevated to RRFC status, it is removed. Submitting a new version
   restarts this 6 month time limit. An archive of removed
   Robotics-Drafts is kept purely for informational purposes; it does
   not constitute any form of official publication.

   After a Robotics-Draft is first submitted, no further action may be
   taken by the RRFC Editor for at least two weeks. During this time,
   commentary and discussion may occur on the RRFC-discussion mailing
   list and revisions may be made.

   At any point after the two-week period, the Robotics-Draft may be
   proposed for elevation to RRFC status. This process is begun by a
   proposal to the Voting Managers.

4.3  Voting

   RRFCs are published by community agreement through a voting process.
   This process is managed by the Voting Managers. Their responsibility
   is to ensure the smooth and timely occurrence of voting. The voting
   process is as follows:

   1.  A proposal is made to the Voting Managers that a Robotics-Draft
       be elevated to RRFC status and so published. This proposal must
       be made on the open mailing list.
   2.  The Voting Managers may choose to reject the vote. They must
       provide an explanation of their reasons for rejection, and the
       proposer may appeal. All rejections and appeals must be made on
       the open mailing list.
   3.  If the Voting Managers choose to go ahead with the vote, they
       must make a last-call on the mailing list for final discussions.
       The last-call must be made a minimum of two weeks before voting
       begins.
   4.  A reasonable time after the last-call, voting begins with an
       announcement by the Voting Managers on the RRFC-vote mailing
       list, containing details of the purpose of the vote and the time
       limit. All votes should be placed on this mailing list as replies
       to this message. Only one vote is allowed per person. The vote
       format is as follows:

         +1
         +0
         -0
         -1

       The meanings of which are:

         +1 Vote for publication
         +0 Don't care if published
         -0 Don't care if not published
         -1 Vote for rejection

       Voting must remain open for a minimum of two weeks.
   5.  Once voting is complete, the Voting Managers tally the votes and
       announce the result on the RRFC-vote mailing list.
   6.  If the vote passes, the Voting Managers request that the RRFC
       Editor publish the document as an RRFC, proving the exact file
       name of the relevant Robotics-Draft. The RRFC Editor will assign
       an RRFC number and make an announcement of publication. The
       document will be removed from the Robotics-Draft directory.
   7.  If the vote fails, it may remain a Robotics-Draft until the end
       of its six month time limit.

4.4  Best Current Practice Process

   Documents proposed as Best Current Practice go through a similar
   process to publishing an RRFC.

   1. A new Robotics-Draft is submitted containing the text of the
      proposed BCP, which should generally be identical (excluding minor
      changes) to the RRCP being proposed for elevation.
   2. A proposal is made to elevate an RRFC to BCP status. This proposal
      is made to the Voting Managers on the mailing list. The proposal
      must include a diff of any changes made from the RRFC to the
      Robotics-Draft proposed for elevation.
   3. The Voting Managers either accept or reject the proposal. If
      accepting, they must then make a Last-Call announcing the schedule
      for voting. A minimum of four weeks must elapse between acceptance
      of the proposal and the start of voting.
   4. If the Voting Managers reject the proposal, they must provide an
      explanation on the open mailing list.
   5. Voting takes place using the process given in Section 4.3.
   6. If the vote is successful, the Robotics-Draft is published as an
      RRFC with the addition of a BCP number assigned by the RRFC
      Editor. It is also added to the BCP index.
   7. If the vote fails, the Robotics-Draft is immediately removed from
      the Robotics-Draft directory. If the proposer wishes to resubmit
      (for example, after modifying the proposal), they must also
      resubmit the Robotics-Draft (including any modifications).

4.5  Conflict Resolution and Appeals

   Disputes are possible during any stage of the publication process. As
   much as possible, the process is designed to allow compromises and
   achieve consensus. However, there are times when even the most
   reasonable and knowledgeable people are unable to agree. Such
   conflicts must be resolved in open discussion on the RRFC mailing
   lists.

   There is no elected board in the RETF, so it is the responsibility of
   the community to resolve differences. If necessary, a voting process
   may be utilised under the management of the Voting Managers to
   resolve differences.


5.  External Standards and Specifications

   Many standards groups create and publish standards and
   specifications, and many of these have begun efforts to standardise
   areas in robotics. When such standards exist, they can be brought
   into the RRFC process in the form of Informational RRFCs.


6.  Notices and Record Keeping

   Notifications must be made for various events:

6.1  Submission of a new Robotics-Draft

   The submitter should make an announcement to RRFC-announce in order
   to begin discussion.

6.2  Proposed elevation of an R-D to RRFC or RRFC to BCP

   The Voting Managers must announce a Last-Call detailing the voting
   schedule to RRFC-announce.

6.3  Opening of voting

   The Voting Managers must announce the opening of voting to RRFC-vote.
   This announcement must contain the voting schedule and details of the
   vote topic.

6.4  Close of voting

   The Voting Managers must announce the close of voting to RRFC-vote.

6.5  Outcome of voting

   The Voting Managers must announce the results of a vote to RRFC-vote.

6.6  Publication of an RRFC

   The RRFC Editor must announce the publication of new RRFCs to
   RRFC-announce.

7.  Varying the Process

   This document and other documents setting out the processes of
   publishing RRFCs are themselves RRFCs, and so are subject to the same
   rules for modification. This document itself is likely to be replaced
   in time, as the processes change based on experience. Updating this
   document follows the same procedure as updating any other BCP.


8.  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS

   Um? Need to think about this stuff carefully.

8.1  General Policy

   In all matters of intellectual property rights and procedures, the
   intention is to benefit the Robotics Community and the public at
   large, while respecting the legitimate rights of others.

8.2  Confidentiality Obligations

   No contribution that is subject to any requirement of confidentiality
   or any restriction on its dissemination may be considered in any part
   of the Robotic Request For Comment Publication Process, and there
   must be no assumption of any confidentiality obligation with respect
   to any such contribution.

8.3.  Rights and Permissions

   In the course of standards work, contributions are received in
   various forms and from many persons.  To best facilitate the
   dissemination of these contributions, it is necessary to understand
   any intellectual property rights (IPR) relating to the contributions.

8.3.1.  All Contributions

   By submission of a contribution, each person actually submitting the
   contribution is deemed to agree to the following terms and conditions
   on his own behalf, on behalf of the organization (if any) he
   represents and on behalf of the owners of any propriety rights in the
   contribution.  Where a submission identifies contributors in
   addition to the contributor(s) who provide the actual submission, the
   actual submitter(s) represent that each other named contributor was
   made aware of and agreed to accept the same terms and conditions on
   his own behalf, on behalf of any organization he may represent and
   any known owner of any proprietary rights in the contribution.

   l. Some works (e.g. works of the U.S. Government) are not subject to
      copyright.  However, to the extent that the submission is or may
      be subject to copyright, the contributor, the organization he
      represents (if any) and the owners of any proprietary rights in
      the contribution, grant an unlimited perpetual, non-exclusive,
      royalty-free, world-wide right and license to the ISOC and the
      IETF under any copyrights in the contribution.  This license
      includes the right to copy, publish and distribute the
      contribution in any way, and to prepare derivative works that are
      based on or incorporate all or part of the contribution, the
      license to such derivative works to be of the same scope as the
      license of the original contribution.

   2. The contributor acknowledges that the ISOC and IETF have no duty
      to publish or otherwise use or disseminate any contribution.

   3. The contributor grants permission to reference the name(s) and
      address(es) of the contributor(s) and of the organization(s) he
      represents (if any).

   4. The contributor represents that contribution properly acknowledge
      major contributors.

   5. The contribuitor, the organization (if any) he represents and the
      owners of any proprietary rights in the contribution, agree that
      no information in the contribution is confidential and that the
      ISOC and its affiliated organizations may freely disclose any
      information in the contribution.

   6. The contributor represents that he has disclosed the existence of
      any proprietary or intellectual property rights in the
      contribution that are reasonably and personally known to the
      contributor.  The contributor does not represent that he
      personally knows of all potentially pertinent proprietary and
      intellectual property rights owned or claimed by the organization
      he represents (if any) or third parties.

   7. The contributor represents that there are no limits to the
      contributor's ability to make the grants acknowledgments and
      agreements above that are reasonably and personally known to the
      contributor.

      By ratifying this description of the IETF process the Internet
      Society warrants that it will not inhibit the traditional open and
      free access to IETF documents for which license and right have
      been assigned according to the procedures set forth in this
      section, including Internet-Drafts and RFCs. This warrant is
      perpetual and will not be revoked by the Internet Society or its
      successors or assigns.

8.3.2. Standards Track Documents

   (A)  Where any patents, patent applications, or other proprietary
      rights are known, or claimed, with respect to any specification on
      the standards track, and brought to the attention of the IESG, the
      IESG shall not advance the specification without including in the
      document a note indicating the existence of such rights, or
      claimed rights.  Where implementations are required before
      advancement of a specification, only implementations that have, by
      statement of the implementors, taken adequate steps to comply with
      any such rights, or claimed rights, shall be considered for the
      purpose of showing the adequacy of the specification.
   (B)  The IESG disclaims any responsibility for identifying the
      existence of or for evaluating the applicability of any claimed
      copyrights, patents, patent applications, or other rights in the
      fulfilling of the its obligations under (A), and will take no
      position on the validity or scope of any such rights.
   (C)  Where the IESG knows of rights, or claimed rights under (A), the
      IETF Executive Director shall attempt to obtain from the claimant
      of such rights, a written assurance that upon approval by the IESG
      of the relevant Internet standards track specification(s), any
      party will be able to obtain the right to implement, use and
      distribute the technology or works when implementing, using or
      distributing technology based upon the specific specification(s)
      under openly specified, reasonable, non-discriminatory terms.
      The Working Group proposing the use of the technology with respect
      to which the proprietary rights are claimed may assist the IETF
      Executive Director in this effort.  The results of this procedure
      shall not affect advancement of a specification along the
      standards track, except that the IESG may defer approval where a
      delay may facilitate the obtaining of such assurances.  The
      results will, however, be recorded by the IETF Executive Director,
      and made available.  The IESG may also direct that a summary of
      the results be included in any RFC published containing the
      specification.

8.3.3  Determination of Reasonable and Non-discriminatory Terms

   The IESG will not make any explicit determination that the assurance
   of reasonable and non-discriminatory terms for the use of a
   technology has been fulfilled in practice.  It will instead use the
   normal requirements for the advancement of Internet Standards to
   verify that the terms for use are reasonable.  If the two unrelated
   implementations of the specification that are required to advance
   from Proposed Standard to Draft Standard have been produced by
   different organizations or individuals or if the "significant
   implementation and successful operational experience" required to
   advance from Draft Standard to Standard has been achieved the
   assumption is that the terms must be reasonable and to some degree,
   non-discriminatory.  This assumption may be challenged during the
   Last-Call period.

8.4.  Notices

   (A)  Standards track documents shall include the following notice:

         "The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of
         any intellectual property or other rights that might be claimed
         to  pertain to the implementation or use of the technology
         described in this document or the extent to which any license
         under such rights might or might not be available; neither does
         it represent that it has made any effort to identify any such
         rights.  Information on the IETF's procedures with respect to
         rights in standards-track and standards-related documentation
         can be found in BCP-11.  Copies of claims of rights made
         available for publication and any assurances of licenses to
         be made available, or the result of an attempt made
         to obtain a general license or permission for the use of such
         proprietary rights by implementors or users of this
         specification can be obtained from the IETF Secretariat."

   (B)  The IETF encourages all interested parties to bring to its
      attention, at the earliest possible time, the existence of any
      intellectual property rights pertaining to Internet Standards.
      For this purpose, each standards document shall include the
      following invitation:

         "The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its
         attention any copyrights, patents or patent applications, or
         other proprietary rights which may cover technology that may be
         required to practice this standard.  Please address the
         information to the IETF Executive Director."

   (C)  The following copyright notice and disclaimer shall be included
      in all ISOC standards-related documentation:

         "Copyright (C) The Internet Society (date). All Rights
         Reserved.

         This document and translations of it may be copied and
         furnished to others, and derivative works that comment on or
         otherwise explain it or assist in its implmentation may be
         prepared, copied, published and distributed, in whole or in
         part, without restriction of any kind, provided that the above
         copyright notice and this paragraph are included on all such
         copies and derivative works.  However, this document itself may
         not be modified in any way, such as by removing the copyright
         notice or references to the Internet Society or other Internet
         organizations, except as needed for the  purpose of developing
         Internet standards in which case the procedures for copyrights
         defined in the Internet Standards process must be followed, or
         as required to translate it into languages other than English.

         The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will
         not be revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or
         assigns.
         This document and the information contained herein is provided
         on an "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET
         ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR
         IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE
         OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY
         IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
         PARTICULAR PURPOSE."

   (D)  Where the IESG is aware at the time of publication of
      proprietary rights claimed with respect to a standards track
      document, or the technology described or referenced therein, such
      document shall contain the following notice:

         "The IETF has been notified of intellectual property rights
         claimed in regard to some or all of the specification contained
         in this document.  For more information consult the online list
         of claimed rights."

9.  Acknowledgments

   Parts of this document and the processes it describes are based on
   RFC 2026 from the IETF [2].

   The idea to create such a process for robotics stems from an email
   from Ingo Lütkebohle.


10.  Security Considerations

   Security issues are not discussed in this memo.


11.  REFERENCES

   [1]  Biggs, G., "Instructions to RRFC Authors", RRFC 2, October 2010.

   [2]  Bradner, S., "The Internet Standards Process -- Revision 3",
        October 1996.

12. Definitions of Terms

   Voting Managers - A group of people responsible for directing the
      voting processes.
   RRFC Editor - The person responsible for assigning RRFC numbers, BCP
      numbers, and publishing RRFCs.
   Last-Call - A public comment period used to gage the level of
      consensus about the reasonableness of a proposed publication
      action (see Section 4).

13. AUTHOR'S ADDRESS

   Geoffrey Biggs
   Intelligent Systems Research Institute
   Central 2, 1-1-1, Umezono
   Tsukuba
   Ibaraki 305-8568
   Japan

   Phone: +81 29-861-5984
   Fax:   +81 29-861-5987
   EMail: geoffrey.biggs@aist.go.jp

14.  Full Copyright Statement

   <Deal with this - having based ours heavily on theirs, do we need
   their copyright as well?>

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1997).  All Rights Reserved.

   This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
   others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it
   or assist in its implmentation may be prepared, copied, published and
   distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind,
   provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
   included on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this
   document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by removing
   the copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or other
   Internet organizations, except as needed for the purpose of
   developing Internet standards in which case the procedures for
   copyrights defined in the Internet Standards process must be
   followed, or as required to translate it into languages other than
   English.

   The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
   revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

   This document and the information contained herein is provided on an
   "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING
   TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING
   BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION
   HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
   MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE."

APPENDIX A: Glossary of Acronyms

   RRFC:     Robotic Request For Comment
   BCP:      Best Current Practice
   VM:       Voting Managers

